Final project for Netflix Datascience intro bootcamp
# Final Project-Group-4-sleepy-heads
Contributors: Gaston Shefa, Mahederemariam Bayleyegn Dagne, Guillermo Sanchez Lamas, Salvador Villalon Jr
Purpose: 
Analyze sleep patterns to review performance and health conditions of individuals. In a bid to conduct our anaylsis, we used the following categories/Indicators of the state of being (Sedentary life style, Stress, Emotions, and Anxiety) in relation to sleep pattern. 
Data Sources: 
The following Datasets were pulled from Kaggle and https://physionet.org/content/mmash/1.0.0/ 
1. FitBit Fitness Tracker Data
Dataset generated by Thirty eligible Fitbit users from 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. It includes minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.
2. Multilevel Monitoring of Activity and Sleep in Healthy People (MMASH)
Dataset provides 24 hours of continuous beat-to-beat heart data, triaxial accelerometer data, sleep quality, physical activity and psychological characteristics (i.e., anxiety status, stress events and emotions) for 22 healthy participants.
Categories Used in our Analysis:
1. Sedentary Life Style and Sleep 
        Question: Does being more sedentary affect the amount of sleep you get?

    Analysis: 
        A linear Regression Test was conducted to test the Null Hypothesis. Base on the Linear Regression, The Null Hypothesis is rejected. 
2. Stress and Sleep
        Question: Does waking up in the middle of the night affect stress levels the next day?
    Analysis: 
        Here we conducted a Linear Regression Testing, which presented that total sleep time do not affect daily stress level. 
        We also used scattered plot which indicated that number of awakenings at night increase exponentially after sleeping more than 300minutes. 
3. Emotions and Sleep 
        Question 1: Does negative emotions before going to sleep have an influence to quality of sleep?
        Question 2: Does positive emotions before going to sleep have an influence the quality of sleep?
    Analysis: 
        We also used a scatter plot to find the relationship between emotions before sleep and emotions after sleep and applied a linear regression testing to test the hypothesis. 

4. Anxiety and Sleep 
        Qiuestion: Is there a relation between Anxiety and sleep. Does anxiety have an influence on the quality of sleep? 
    Analysis: 
        Linear regression testing was used to test Total Sleep Time and Anxiety and Sleep quality and Anxiety. Scatter plot is also used to study the relation between Anxiety and Total sleep time. And based on the linear regression model, the null Hypothesis is accepted
Limitations: 
        Dataset consisted of healthy individuals, results might be different  for a broader group.
        Multilevel Monitoring of Activity and Sleep in Healthy People consisted of two day datasets, a longer timeframe would make it easier to make conclusions.

Conclusion: 
        Activity and Sedentary minutes affect the amount of sleep people get.
        Daily Stress levels and number of awakening do not have a significant impact on the amount of sleep.
        Having positive emotions before sleep has a negative effect on Sleep quality
        Sleep quality affects the negative emotions we can have the next day
        The level anxiety however does not affect it significantly.




